docs/04.logs.creating.md, before:

# Creating an organisation-wide gource animation

## Generating a Gource log file

Once the repositories have been cloned and a mailmap has been added, the Gource log files can be generated.

The command to do this is:

```sh
gource --output-custom-log 'logs/repository-name.log' 'repos/repository-name'
```

This will output a log file containing a line per change, per file, sorted by date.

For instance, using the [`git` repository](https://github.com/git/git) as an example, the log file will look something like this:

```
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/Makefile
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/README
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/cache.h
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/cat-file.c
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/commit-tree.c
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/init-db.c
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/read-cache.c
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/read-tree.c
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/show-diff.c
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/update-cache.c
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/write-tree.c
1112912170|Linus Torvalds|M|/cat-file.c
1112912170|Linus Torvalds|M|/commit-tree.c
1112912170|Linus Torvalds|M|/init-db.c
1112912170|Linus Torvalds|M|/read-cache.c
...
1670287771|Junio C Hamano|M|/GIT-VERSION-GEN
1670387782|Ævar Arnfjörð Bjarmason|M|/.github/workflows/main.yml
1670387782|Ævar Arnfjörð Bjarmason|M|/ci/install-dependencies.sh
1670387782|Ævar Arnfjörð Bjarmason|M|/ci/lib.sh
1670454360|Ævar Arnfjörð Bjarmason|M|/.github/workflows/main.yml
1670454923|Johannes Schindelin|M|/.github/workflows/main.yml
1670456842|Ævar Arnfjörð Bjarmason|M|/.github/workflows/l10n.yml
1670456842|Ævar Arnfjörð Bjarmason|M|/.github/workflows/main.yml
1670560609|Johannes Schindelin|M|/Documentation/RelNotes/2.39.0.txt
1670581905|Victoria Dye|M|/sequencer.c
1670581905|Victoria Dye|M|/t/t3404-rebase-interactive.sh
1670631456|Matheus Tavares|M|/.mailmap
1670657536|Johannes Schindelin|M|/.github/workflows/main.yml
1670718768|Junio C Hamano|M|/Documentation/RelNotes/2.38.2.txt
1670718768|Junio C Hamano|M|/GIT-VERSION-GEN
```

### Generating log files for all repositories

Using either a `for` loop the log files can be generated for all repositories in the `repos/` directory:

```sh
for sDir in ./repos/*/;do 
    gource --output-custom-log "logs/$(basename "${sDir}").log" "${sDir}"
done
```

This will fill the `logs/` directory quite nicely, but the logs will still need to be cleaned up and combined!

Commit message:

Change log creation to use sub-directory (or prefix) for logs.

docs/04.logs.creating.md, after:

# Creating an organisation-wide gource animation

## Generating a Gource log file

Once the repositories have been cloned and a mailmap has been added, the Gource log files can be generated.

The command to do this is `gource --output-custom-log`

This will output a log file containing a line per change, per file, sorted by date.

For instance, using the [`git` repository](https://github.com/git/git) as an example, the log file will look something like this:

```
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/Makefile
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/README
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/cache.h
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/cat-file.c
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/commit-tree.c
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/init-db.c
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/read-cache.c
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/read-tree.c
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/show-diff.c
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/update-cache.c
1112911993|Linus Torvalds|A|/write-tree.c
1112912170|Linus Torvalds|M|/cat-file.c
1112912170|Linus Torvalds|M|/commit-tree.c
1112912170|Linus Torvalds|M|/init-db.c
1112912170|Linus Torvalds|M|/read-cache.c
...
1670287771|Junio C Hamano|M|/GIT-VERSION-GEN
1670387782|Ævar Arnfjörð Bjarmason|M|/.github/workflows/main.yml
1670387782|Ævar Arnfjörð Bjarmason|M|/ci/install-dependencies.sh
1670387782|Ævar Arnfjörð Bjarmason|M|/ci/lib.sh
1670454360|Ævar Arnfjörð Bjarmason|M|/.github/workflows/main.yml
1670454923|Johannes Schindelin|M|/.github/workflows/main.yml
1670456842|Ævar Arnfjörð Bjarmason|M|/.github/workflows/l10n.yml
1670456842|Ævar Arnfjörð Bjarmason|M|/.github/workflows/main.yml
1670560609|Johannes Schindelin|M|/Documentation/RelNotes/2.39.0.txt
1670581905|Victoria Dye|M|/sequencer.c
1670581905|Victoria Dye|M|/t/t3404-rebase-interactive.sh
1670631456|Matheus Tavares|M|/.mailmap
1670657536|Johannes Schindelin|M|/.github/workflows/main.yml
1670718768|Junio C Hamano|M|/Documentation/RelNotes/2.38.2.txt
1670718768|Junio C Hamano|M|/GIT-VERSION-GEN
```
As we do not want to generate these log files more than once, but we _do_ want to use them as a source for other commands, we need to either place them in a separate directory together, or use prefix.

```sh
# Use a separate directory
gource --output-custom-log 'logs/full/repository-name.log' 'repos/repository-name'

# Or use a file prefix
gource --output-custom-log 'logs/full.repository-name.log' 'repos/repository-name'
```



### Generating log files for all repositories

Using either a `for` loop the log files can be generated for all repositories in the `repos/` directory:

```sh
for sDir in ./repos/*/;do 
    gource --output-custom-log "logs/full/$(basename "${sDir}").log" "${sDir}"
done
```

This will fill the `logs/` directory quite nicely, but the logs will still need to be cleaned up and combined!
